{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.26100}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\lang9 Module 6 \f1\endash  Mernstack \endash  Javascript Essential and Advanced \f0\lang1033 :----\f1\par
\f0 ----------------------------\f1  Lab Assignment \f0 ------------------------------\f1  \par
\par
\fs24\bullet  \fs28 JavaScript Introduction \f0 :--\par
\par
\f1\fs24\bullet  Task: \par
\bullet  Create a simple HTML page and add a <script> tag within the page.\par
\f0 ANS=>\b0 <!DOCTYPE html>\par
<html>\par
<head>\par
  <title>JavaScript Intro</title>\par
</head>\par
<body>\par
  <script>\par
    alert("Welcome to JavaScript!");\par
  </script>\par
</body>\par
</html>\par
\f1\par
\b\bullet  Write JavaScript code to display an alert box with the message "Welcome to JavaScript!" when the page loads. \par
\f0 ANS=>\b0 <!DOCTYPE html>\par
<html>\par
<head>\par
  <title>JavaScript Intro</title>\par
</head>\par
<body>\par
  <script>\par
    alert("Welcome to JavaScript!");\par
  </script>\par
</body>\par
</html>\par
\b\par
\f1\fs28\bullet  Variables and Data Types \f0 :--\par
\par
\f1\fs24\bullet  Task: \par
\bullet  Write a JavaScript program to declare variables for different data types (string, number, boolean, null, and undefined).\par
\bullet  Log the values of the variables and their types to the console using console.log().\par
\f0 ANS=>\b0 let name = "Sohail";       // string  \par
let age = 18;              // number  \par
let isStudent = true;      // boolean  \par
let value = null;          // null  \par
let score;                 // undefined  \par
\par
console.log(name, typeof name);\par
console.log(age, typeof age);\par
console.log(isStudent, typeof isStudent);\par
console.log(value, typeof value);\par
console.log(score, typeof score);\b\f1\par
\f0\par
\f1\fs28\bullet  JavaScript Operators \f0 :--\par
\par
\f1\fs24\bullet  Task: \par
\bullet  Create a JavaScript program to perform the following: \par
\bullet  Add, subtract, multiply, and divide two numbers using arithmetic operators. \par
\bullet  Use comparison operators to check if two numbers are equal and if one number is greater than the other. \par
\bullet  Use logical operators to check if both conditions (e.g., a > 10 and b < 5) are true. \par
\f0 ANS=>\b0 let a = 20, b = 5;\par
console.log("Addition:", a + b);\par
console.log("Subtraction:", a - b);\par
console.log("Multiplication:", a * b);\par
console.log("Division:", a / b);\par
\par
console.log(a == b);   // false\par
console.log(a > b);    // trueconsole.log(a == b);   // false\par
console.log(a > b);    // true\par
\par
console.log(a > 10 && b < 10); // true\par
\b\par
\f1\bullet  \fs28 Control Flow (If-Else, Switch) \f0 :--\par
\par
\f1\fs24\bullet  Task 1: \bullet  Write a JavaScript program to check if a number is positive, negative, or zero using an if-else statement. \par
\f0 ANS=>\b0 let num = -3;\par
if (num > 0) \{\par
  console.log("Positive");\par
\} else if (num < 0) \{\par
  console.log("Negative");\par
\} else \{\par
  console.log("Zero");\par
\}\par
\f1\par
\b\bullet  Task 2: \bullet  Create a JavaScript program using a switch statement to display the day of the week based on the user input (e.g., 1 for Monday, 2 for Tuesday, etc.). \par
\f0 ANS=>\b0 let day = 3;\par
switch(day) \{\par
  case 1: console.log("Monday"); break;\par
  case 2: console.log("Tuesday"); break;\par
  case 3: console.log("Wednesday"); break;\par
  case 4: console.log("Thursday"); break;\par
  case 5: console.log("Friday"); break;\par
  case 6: console.log("Saturday"); break;\par
  case 7: console.log("Sunday"); break;\par
  default: console.log("Invalid day");\par
\}\f1\par
\b\fs28\par
\bullet  Loops (For, While, Do-While) \f0 :--\par
\par
\f1\fs24\bullet  Task 1: \bullet  Write a JavaScript program using a for loop to print numbers from 1 to 10.\par
 \f0 ANS=>\b0 for (let i = 1; i <= 10; i++) \{\par
  console.log(i);\par
\}\par
\b\f1\par
\bullet  Task 2: \bullet  Create a JavaScript program that uses a while loop to sum all even numbers between 1 and 20.\par
\f0 ANS=>\b0 let i = 1, sum = 0;\par
while (i <= 20) \{\par
  if (i % 2 === 0) sum += i;\par
  i++;\par
\}\par
console.log("Sum:", sum);\par
\b\f1\par
\bullet  Task 3: \bullet  Write a do-while loop that continues to ask the user for input until they enter a number greater than 10. \par
\f0 ANS=>\b0 let input;\par
do \{\par
  input = parseInt(prompt("Enter a number greater than 10:"));\par
\} while (input <= 10);\par
\b\par
\f1\fs28\bullet  Arrays \f0 :--\par
\par
\f1\fs24\bullet  Task 1: \par
\bullet  Declare an array of fruits (["apple", "banana", "cherry"]). Use JavaScript to: \par
\bullet  Add a fruit to the end of the array. \par
\bullet  Remove the first fruit from the array. \par
\bullet  Log the modified array to the console. \par
\f0 ANS=>\b0\f1 let fruits = ["apple", "banana", "cherry"];\par
fruits.push("orange");   // Add to end\par
fruits.shift();          // Remove first\par
console.log(fruits);     // ["banana", "cherry", "orange"]\par
\b\par
\bullet  Task 2: \par
\bullet  Write a program to find the sum of all elements in an array of numbers. \par
\f0 ANS=> \b0 let nums = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];\par
let total = 0;\par
for (let num of nums) \{\par
  total += num;\par
\}\par
console.log("Total:", total);\f1\par
\b\fs28\bullet  Objects \f0 :--\par
\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\bullet  Task: \par
\bullet  Create a JavaScript object car with properties brand, model, and year. Use JavaScript to: \par
\bullet  Access and print the car\rquote s brand and model. \par
\bullet  Update the year property. \par
\bullet  Add a new property color to the car object. \par
\f0\lang1033 ANS=> \f1\lang9\par
\b0 let car = \{\par
  brand: "Toyota",\par
  model: "Corolla",\par
  year: 2020\par
\};\par
\par
console.log(car.brand, car.model);\par
car.year = 2023;\par
car.color = "Black";\par
console.log(car);\par
\b\fs28\par
\bullet  JavaScript Events \f0\lang1033 :--\par
\par
\f1\fs24\bullet  Task: \par
\bullet  Create a simple webpage with a button that, when clicked, displays an alert saying "Button clicked!" using JavaScript event listeners. \par
\f0 ANS=>  \b0 <!DOCTYPE html>\par
<html>\par
<body>\par
  <button id="myBtn">Click Me</button>\par
\par
  <script>\par
    document.getElementById("myBtn").addEventListener("click", () => \{\par
      alert("Button clicked!");\par
    \});\par
  </script>\par
</body>\par
</html>\f1\par
\b\par
\fs28\bullet  DOM Manipulation \f0 :--\par
\par
\f1\fs24\bullet  Task: \par
\bullet  Create an HTML page with a paragraph (<p>) that displays "Hello, World!". \par
\bullet  Use JavaScript to: \par
\bullet  Change the text inside the paragraph to "JavaScript is fun!". \par
\bullet  Change the color of the paragraph to blue. \par
\f0 ANS\b0 => <!DOCTYPE html>\par
<html>\par
<body>\par
  <p id="myText">Hello, World!</p>\par
\par
  <script>\par
    let p = document.getElementById("myText");\par
    p.textContent = "JavaScript is fun!";\par
    p.style.color = "blue";\par
  </script>\par
</body>\par
</html>\f1\par
\b\par
\fs28\bullet  JavaScript Timing Events (setTimeout, setInterval) \f0 :--\par
\par
\f1\fs24\bullet  Task 1: \par
\bullet  Write a program that changes the background color of a webpage after 5 seconds using setTimeout(). \par
\f0 ANS=> \b0 setTimeout(() => \{\par
  document.body.style.backgroundColor = "lightblue";\par
\}, 5000);\f1\par
\b\bullet  Task 2: \par
\bullet  Create a digital clock that updates every second using setInterval(). \par
\f0 ANS=>\b0  <div id="clock"></div>\par
\par
<script>\par
  setInterval(() => \{\par
    let now = new Date();\par
    document.getElementById("clock").textContent = now.toLocaleTimeString();\par
  \}, 1000);\par
</script>\par
\b\f1\par
\fs28\bullet  JavaScript Error Handling \f0 :--\par
\par
\f1\fs24\bullet  Task: \par
\bullet  Write a JavaScript program that attempts to divide a number by zero. Use try- catch to handle the error and display an appropriate error message. \par
\f0 ANS=>\b0  try \{\par
  let result = 10 / 0;\par
  if (!isFinite(result)) throw new Error("Cannot divide by zero");\par
  console.log(result);\par
\} catch (error) \{\par
  console.log("Error:", error.message);\par
\}\fs28\lang9\par
}
 